
1. Mol Carcinog. 1992;5(1):52-61.

Alterations in mRNA levels for growth-related genes after transplantation into
castrated hosts in oncogene-induced clonal mouse prostate carcinoma.

Egawa S(1), Kadmon D, Miller GJ, Scardino PT, Thompson TC.

Author information: 
(1)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030.

A clonal mouse prostate carcinoma was established by the introduction of the ras 
and myc oncogenes via the recombinant retrovirus Zipras/myc 9 using a mouse
prostate reconstitution model system. A single-cell suspension derived from an
early passage ras+myc-induced carcinoma was inoculated into the flanks of intact 
or castrated adult male C57BL/6 mice, and tumors were harvested 3 wk
postinoculation for northern and Southern blotting. Tumor volume analysis showed 
that this carcinoma was not dependent on testicular androgens for growth.
Southern blot analysis of virus-cell DNA junction fragments revealed that tumor
cell populations recovered from both intact and castrated mice were progeny of
the same virus-infected cell. Northern blotting showed that mRNA levels for the
four growth-related genes transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1),
transforming growth factor-beta 3 (TGF-beta 3), tissue-type plasminogen activator
(tPA), and c-myc were significantly elevated in clonal mouse prostate carcinomas 
grown in castrated hosts. In contrast, androgen receptor mRNA levels were
significantly reduced under the same conditions. The response of TGF-beta 1, tPA,
and c-myc mRNA levels in the carcinomas grown in castrated hosts was similar to
that shown previously in normal rat ventral prostate. However, unlike normal rat 
ventral prostate after castration, increased numbers of apoptotic cells were not 
seen in the castrated group relative to the intact group at the time of analysis,
indicating that the altered gene expression was not associated with cell death.
In addition, testosterone-repressed prostate mRNA number 2 levels, shown
previously to be elevated after castration in normal rat ventral prostate, were
not increased in the androgen-deprived clonal mouse prostate carcinomas.
Therefore, this early passage clonal ras+myc-induced prostate carcinoma
demonstrates unique patterns of expression for a set of growth-related genes in
an androgen-deprived environment.

DOI: 10.1002/mc.2940050110 
PMID: 1543541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

