
1. Genes Chromosomes Cancer. 1993 Feb;6(2):65-72.

ZFY gene expression and retention in human prostate adenocarcinoma.

Tricoli JV(1), Bracken RB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery/Division of Urology, University of Cincinnatic College
of Medicine, OH 45267.

The terminal portion of the short arm of the human Y (Yp) chromosome encodes a
zinc-finger DNA binding protein (ZFY). A highly homologous gene, ZFX, is encoded 
on Xp. The potential of the zinc finger motif for regulating the expression of
other genes suggests a role for this protein in the development of malignancy.
Prostate adenocarcinoma is a malignancy of male-specific tissue, the incidence of
which increases beyond the fifth decade of life. We have analyzed samples of
human prostate adenocarcinoma for the expression of ZFY and ZFX transcripts. We
found expression of ZFY transcripts in 3 of 31 prostate adenocarcinomas by using 
Northern analysis. No ZFY or ZFX transcripts were detected in normal hypertrophic
prostate tissue on Northern analysis. In one prostate adenocarcinoma, high levels
of the 5.1 kb ZFY and the 8.0 and 6.3 kb ZFX transcripts were present. In
addition, this high-grade tumor contained a novel 4.3 kb transcript. When we used
reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) to analyze these same samples, the number of
tumors expressing ZFY and/or ZFX transcripts increased to 20 of 31. Transcripts
for these genes were also present in the DU-145 and LNCaP human prostate
adenocarcinoma cell lines. In 2 of the 6 benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH)
tissues analyzed by RT-PCR, barely detectable products of ZFY were observed, and 
none contained ZFX products. Southern analysis revealed that the portion of the Y
chromosome which contains the ZFY gene was not lost from the majority of the
tumor cells in any of the prostate malignancies examined.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/gcc.2870060202 
PMID: 7680890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

