
1. Br J Cancer. 1996 Nov;74(10):1518-25.

Expression of the zinc finger gene EVI-1 in ovarian and other cancers.

Brooks DJ(1), Woodward S, Thompson FH, Dos Santos B, Russell M, Yang JM, Guan XY,
Trent J, Alberts DS, Taetle R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Arizona and Arizona Cancer Center,
Tucson 85724, USA.

The EVI-1 gene was originally detected as an ectopic viral insertion site and
encodes a nuclear zinc finger DNA-binding protein. Previous studies showed
restricted EVI-1 RNA or protein expression during ontogeny; in a kidney and an
endometrial carcinoma cell line; and in normal murine oocytes and kidney cells.
EVI-1 expression was also detected in a subset of acute myeloid leukaemias (AMLs)
and myelodysplasia. Because EVI-1 is expressed in the urogenital tract during
development, we examined ovarian cancers and normal ovaries for EVI-1 RNA
expression using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and
RNAase protection. Chromosome abnormalities were examined using karyotypes and
whole chromosome 3 and 3q26 fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH). RNA from
six primary ovarian tumours, five normal ovaries and 47 tumour cell lines (25
ovarian, seven melanoma, three prostate, seven breast and one each of bladder,
endometrial, lung, epidermoid and histiocytic lymphoma) was studied. Five of six 
primary ovarian tumours, three of five normal ovaries and 22 of 25 ovarian cell
lines expressed EVI-1 RNA. A variety of other non-haematological cancers also
expressed EVI-1 RNA. Immunostaining of ovarian cancer cell lines revealed nuclear
EVI-1 protein. In contrast, normal ovary stained primarily within oocytes and
faintly in stroma. Primary ovarian tumours showed nuclear and intense, diffuse
cytoplasmic staining. Quantitation of EVI-1 RNA, performed using RNAase
protection, showed ovarian carcinoma cells expressed 0 to 40 times the EVI-1 RNA 
in normal ovary, and 0-6 times the levels in leukaemia cell lines. Southern
analyses of ovarian carcinoma cell lines showed no amplification or
rearrangements involving EVI-1. In some acute leukaemias, activation of EVI-1
transcription is associated with translocations involving 3q26, the site of the
EVI-1 gene. Ovarian carcinoma karyotypes showed one line with quadruplication
3(q24q27), but no other clonal structural rearrangements involving 3q26. However,
whole chromsome 3 and 3q26 FISH performed on lines with high EVI-1 expression
showed translocations involving chromosome 3q26. EVI-1 is overexpressed in
ovarian cancer compared with normal ovaries, suggesting a role for EVI-1 in solid
tumour carcinogenesis or progression. Mechanisms underlying EVI-1 overexpression 
remain unclear, but may include rearrangements involving chromosome 3q26.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1996.583 
PMCID: PMC2074868
PMID: 8932329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

