
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1995 Jul 18;92(15):6778-82.

Identification of the human prostatic carcinoma oncogene PTI-1 by rapid
expression cloning and differential RNA display.

Shen R(1), Su ZZ, Olsson CA, Fisher PB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Columbia University, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, New York, NY 10032, USA.

Elucidating the relevant genomic changes mediating development and evolution of
prostate cancer is paramount for effective diagnosis and therapy. A putative
dominant-acting nude mouse prostatic carcinoma tumor-inducing gene, PTI-1, has
been cloned that is expressed in patient-derived human prostatic carcinomas but
not in benign prostatic hypertrophy or normal prostate tissue. PTI-1 was detected
by cotransfecting human prostate carcinoma DNA into CREF-Trans 6 cells, inducing 
tumors in nude mice, and isolating genes displaying increased expression in
tumor-derived cells by using differential RNA display (DD). Screening a human
prostatic carcinoma (LNCaP) cDNA library with a 214-bp DNA fragment found by DD
permitted the cloning of a full-length 2.0-kb PTI-1 cDNA. Sequence analysis
indicates that PTI-1 is a gene containing a 630-bp 5' sequence and a 3' sequence 
homologous to a truncated and mutated form of human elongation factor 1 alpha. In
vitro translation demonstrates that the PTI-1 cDNA encodes a predominant
approximately 46-kDa protein. Probing Northern blots with a DNA fragment
corresponding to the 5' region of PTI-1 identifies multiple PTI-1 transcripts in 
RNAs from human carcinoma cell lines derived from the prostate, lung, breast, and
colon. In contrast, PTI-1 RNA is not detected in human melanoma, neuroblastoma,
osteosarcoma, normal cerebellum, or glioblastoma multiforme cell lines. By using 
a pair of primers recognizing a 280-bp region within the 630-bp 5' PTI-1
sequence, reverse transcription-PCR detects PTI-1 expression in patient-derived
prostate carcinomas but not in normal prostate or benign hypertrophic prostate
tissue. In contrast, reverse transcription-PCR detects prostate-specific antigen 
expression in all of the prostate tissues. These results indicate that PTI-1 may 
be a member of a class of oncogenes that could affect protein translation and
contribute to carcinoma development in human prostate and other tissues. The
approaches used, rapid expression cloning with the CREF-Trans 6 system and the DD
strategy, should prove widely applicable for identifying and cloning additional
human oncogenes.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.92.15.6778 
PMCID: PMC41412
PMID: 7542776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

