
1. Prostate. 1992;21(2):145-52.

Analysis of retinoblastoma (RB) gene deletion in human prostatic carcinomas.

Sarkar FH(1), Sakr W, Li YW, Macoska J, Ball DE, Crissman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Wayne State University, School of Medicine, Detroit, 
MI 48201.

The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene (RB gene) has been reported to be
deleted and/or modified in a number of human cancers, indicating that dysfunction
of this tumor suppressor gene is perhaps critical in the development of many
human tumors. In addition to deletion of one copy and/or mutational inactivation 
of the RB gene, this gene has also been reported to be altered by a small
deletion in the promoter sequence in one case of small cell mixed adenocarcinoma 
of the prostate. A deletion of 105 nucleotides of the RB gene in exon 21, leading
to an aberrant short-sized mRNA transcript, has also been reported in one cell
line (DU 145) derived from brain metastasis of prostatic adenocarcinoma. We have 
analyzed tissues from 10 prostate specimens (3 hyperplastic and 7 neoplastic) and
one prostate cancer cell line (DU 145) for the presence of short-sized mRNA
transcript (exon 21 alterations) by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using total
RNA extracted from frozen tumors and the cell line. None of the prostate tissue
showed any evidence of aberrant short-sized mRNA, although it was confirmed in
the DU 145 cell line. Simultaneously, we have used DNA-PCR to investigate RB
promoter deletion in 23 adenocarcinomas and one small cell carcinoma of the
prostate. We also failed to demonstrate any indication of RB promoter deletion at
the DNA level in adenocarcinomas. The single case of small cell carcinoma failed 
to show evidence of any aberration in RB promoter. We therefore conclude that
neither RB promoter alterations nor the exon 21 deletion are associated with
typical prostate adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.1002/pros.2990210207 
PMID: 1329054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

