
1. BJU Int. 2010 May;105(10):1364-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.09167.x. Epub
2010 Jan 8.

Methylated genes as potential biomarkers in prostate cancer.

Phé V(1), Cussenot O, Rouprêt M.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Department of Urology of la Pitiè-Salpétriére Hospital, Paris,
France.

Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy of the urogenital tract. Although
controversial, prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing is widely used for
screening and follow-up of prostate cancer, but because of its limited
specificity and sensitivity, PSA is not an ideal test. We currently lack the
necessary tools to differentiate between latent disease with little likelihood of
clinical manifestation and aggressive tumours that are likely to metastasize and 
lead to potentially lethal disease. DNA methylation is an important epigenetic
mechanism of gene regulation and plays essential roles in tumour initiation and
progression. Currently, aberrant promoter hypermethylation has been investigated 
in specific genes from the following groups: tumour-suppressor genes,
proto-oncogenes, genes involved in cell adhesion, and genes involved in
cell-cycle regulation. Glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) has been shown to be 
a biomarker for prostate cancer. Other genes, e.g. CD44, PTGS2, E-cadherin,
CDH13, and cyclin D2 have been found to be prognostic markers for prostate
cancer. In cell samples derived from the urine, the presence of the
hypermethylation of either GSTP1 or RASS1a has been shown to be both sensitive
and specific for detecting prostate cancer. Several studies have found that
analysis of hypermethylation using a panel of tumour-suppressor genes yielded
better results for detecting prostate cancer than the analysis of single-gene
methylation. Hence, these different panels (e.g. GSTP1, APC, PTGS2, T1G1 and
EDNRB) are of interest for detecting prostate cancer. Also, the methylation
profile of multiple regulatory genes might be altered at the time of cancer
relapse. Thus, preliminary results on the use of the methylation status of
specific genes as potential tumour biomarkers for the early diagnosis and the
risk stratification of patients with prostate cancer are promising.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.09167.x 
PMID: 20067451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

