
1. Int J Cancer. 2001 Nov 20;95(6):354-9.

Linkage and association of CYP17 gene in hereditary and sporadic prostate cancer.

Chang B(1), Zheng SL, Isaacs SD, Wiley KE, Carpten JD, Hawkins GA, Bleecker ER,
Walsh PC, Trent JM, Meyers DA, Isaacs WB, Xu J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Androgens are essential for prostate development, growth and maintenance and the 
association between androgen levels and prostate cancer is well established.
Since the CYP17 gene encodes the enzyme cytochrome P450c17alpha, which mediates
17alpha-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase activities in the androgen biosynthesis
pathway, sequence variations in the gene and association with increased risk to
prostate cancer has been studied. In particular, several groups have studied the 
association between a polymorphism in the 5' promoter region and prostate cancer 
using a population-based association approach. However, the results from these
studies were inconclusive. To further study this polymorphism and its possible
role in hereditary prostate cancer (HPC), we performed a genetic linkage analysis
and family-based association analysis in 159 families, each of which contains at 
least 3 first-degree relatives with prostate cancer. In addition, we performed a 
population-based association analysis to compare the risk of this polymorphism to
hereditary and sporadic prostate cancer in 159 HPC probands, 249 sporadic
prostate cancer patients and 211 unaffected control subjects. Evidence for
linkage at the CYP17 gene region was found in the total 159 HPC families (LOD =
1.3, p = 0.01, at marker D10S222). However, family-based association tests did
not provide evidence for overtransmission of either allele of the CYP17
polymorphism to affected individuals in the HPC families. The allele and genotype
frequencies of the polymorphism were not statistically different among the HPC
probands, sporadic cases and unaffected control subjects. In conclusion, our
results suggest that the CYP17 gene or other genes in the region may increase the
susceptibility to prostate cancer in men; however, the polymorphism in the 5'
promoter region has a minor role if any in increasing prostate cancer
susceptibility in our study sample.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0215(20011120)95:6<354::aid-ijc1062>3.0.co;2-3 
PMID: 11668516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

