
1. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Dec 29;14(4):19191-202. doi: 10.4238/2015.December.29.29.

Association between MTHFR gene polymorphisms (C677T, A1298C) and genetic
susceptibility to prostate cancer: a meta-analysis.

Chen PL(1), Li WT(2), Wang J(3), Jiang YD(1), Wu P(1), Chen T(1), Zheng SB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangdong Province, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical
University.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical
University, Guangdong Province, China.

Genetic polymorphisms (C677T and A1298C) in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase
(MTHFR) were shown to be related to prostate cancer risk in previous studies;
however, the results are controversial. We performed a meta-analysis of previous 
studies and quantitatively estimated these associations. Pubmed, Embase, and
Cochrane Library Database were searched for published case-control studies
evaluating the association between C677T (or A1298C) and prostate cancer risk.
Pooled associations were presented as odds ratios (ORs) along with their 95%
confidence intervals. Twenty-one case control studies were identified for
meta-analysis that included 21,581 participants. No significant associations were
found between the MTHFR polymorphisms C677T or A1298C and prostate cancer risk in
our meta-analysis. However, in subgroup analyses, the C677T CT polymorphism was
associated with increased prostate cancer risk in East Asians (CT vs CC+TT: OR = 
1.324, P = 0.03). The A1298C CC polymorphism in MTHFR was also linked to slightly
reduced prostate cancer risk in European residents (CC vs AC+AA: OR = 0.751, P = 
0.004; CC vs AA: OR = 0.768, P = 0.011), whereas it was associated with a
significantly increased prostate cancer risk in Asian residents (CC vs AA: OR =
1.862, P = 0.006). The C677T CT polymorphism of MTHFR may be a risk factor for
prostate cancer in East Asians. The association between the MTHFR A1298C CC
genotype and prostate cancer risk may vary within different populations.
Large-scale well-designed studies are required to confirm these associations.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.December.29.29 
PMID: 26782572  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

