
1. Mol Carcinog. 1992;5(4):320-7.

Expression of c-erb B-2/neu proto-oncogene in human prostatic cancer tissues and 
cell lines.

Zhau HE(1), Wan DS, Zhou J, Miller GJ, von Eschenbach AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston 77030.

Both amplification and overexpression of c-erb B-2/neu have been associated with 
the progression and possible prognosis of a number of human cancers. In this
study, we demonstrated that c-erb B-2/neu may also play an important role in
human prostate cancer. Our conclusion is based on the following observations: (1)
A monoclonal antibody raised against a peptide sequence from the C-terminal
domain of the human c-erb B-2/neu gene product reacted positively with 68.7% (11 
of 16) of the human prostatic cancer tissue extracts analyzed by western blot
procedure. These results were supported by the immunohistochemical staining of
the prostatic cancer specimens; 80% (12 of 15) showed positive staining,
primarily around the plasma membranes of the prostatic cancer cells. c-erb
B-2/neu oncoprotein was not detectable in normal prostate tissues (five examined 
by immunohistochemical staining and three by western blotting) or in human benign
prostatic hyperplasia (two examined by immunohistochemical staining and six by
western blotting) and was expressed less abundantly with lower intensity in
"normal" human prostate tissues adjacent to cancerous prostate tissue (5 of 12
examined by immunohistochemical staining). We observed no evidence of c-erb
B-2/neu gene amplification in 10 fresh human prostatic cancer specimens examined 
by Southern blotting and in the cultured human prostatic cancer cell lines PC-3, 
DU-145, and LNCaP. (2) The c-erb B-2/neu protein was detected in both
androgen-receptor-positive (LNCaP) and -negative (PC-3 and DU-145) human prostate
cancer cell lines. Positive immunostaining of c-erb B-2/neu protein was found to 
be associated predominantly with the plasma membranes of PC-3 cells, but was also
found to be widespread in the cytoplasmic region of the LNCaP cells and in the
perinuclear region of the DU-145 cells. (3) Like prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
expression, c-erb B-2/neu mRNA expression was also positively regulated by
androgen in androgen-receptor-positive LNCaP cells in vitro and LNCaP tumors in
vivo. When LNCaP tumors were grown in castrated male hosts, levels of c-erb
B-2/neu and PSA mRNA expression decreased initially, but rebounded at 3 wk to
levels comparable to those expressed by tumors maintained in intact adult male
hosts.

DOI: 10.1002/mc.2940050413 
PMID: 1353965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

