
1. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2008 Dec;17(12):3558-66. doi:
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-08-0434.

Polymorphisms in mitochondrial genes and prostate cancer risk.

Wang L(1), McDonnell SK, Hebbring SJ, Cunningham JM, St Sauver J, Cerhan JR,
Isaya G, Schaid DJ, Thibodeau SN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic College of
Medicine, 200 First Street Southwest, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

The mitochondrion, conventionally thought to be an organelle specific to energy
metabolism, is in fact multifunctional and implicated in many diseases, including
cancer. To evaluate whether mitochondria-related genes are associated with
increased risk for prostate cancer, we genotyped 24 single-nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNP) within the mitochondrial genome and 376 tagSNPs localized to 
78 nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes. The tagSNPs were selected to achieve > or
= 80% coverage based on linkage disequilibrium. We compared allele and haplotype 
frequencies in approximately 1,000 prostate cancer cases with approximately 500
population controls. An association with prostate cancer was not detected for any
of the SNPs within the mitochondrial genome individually or for 10 mitochondrial 
common haplotypes when evaluated using a global score statistic. For the
nuclear-encoded genes, none of the tagSNPs were significantly associated with
prostate cancer after adjusting for multiple testing. Nonetheless, we evaluated
unadjusted P values by comparing our results with those from the Cancer Genetic
Markers of Susceptibility (CGEMS) phase I data set. Seven tagSNPs had unadjusted 
P < or = 0.05 in both our data and in CGEMS (two SNPs were identical and five
were in strong linkage disequilibrium with CGEMS SNPs). These seven SNPs
(rs17184211, rs4147684, rs4233367, rs2070902, rs3829037, rs7830235, and
rs1203213) are located in genes MTRR, NDUFA9, NDUFS2, NDUFB9, and COX7A2,
respectively. Five of the seven SNPs were further included in the CGEMS phase II 
study; however, none of the findings for these were replicated. Overall, these
results suggest that polymorphisms in the mitochondrial genome and those in the
nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes evaluated are not substantial risk factors
for prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-08-0434 
PMCID: PMC2750891
PMID: 19064571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

