
1. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 Jan;39(Database issue):D980-5. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq849.
Epub 2010 Sep 29.

DDPC: Dragon Database of Genes associated with Prostate Cancer.

Maqungo M(1), Kaur M, Kwofie SK, Radovanovic A, Schaefer U, Schmeier S, Oppon E, 
Christoffels A, Bajic VB.

Author information: 
(1)South African National Bioinformatics Institute, University of the Western
Cape, Private Bag-X17, Modderdam Road, Bellville, Cape Town, South Africa.

Prostate cancer (PC) is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers in men. PC is 
relatively difficult to diagnose due to a lack of clear early symptoms. Extensive
research of PC has led to the availability of a large amount of data on PC.
Several hundred genes are implicated in different stages of PC, which may help in
developing diagnostic methods or even cures. In spite of this accumulated
information, effective diagnostics and treatments remain evasive. We have
developed Dragon Database of Genes associated with Prostate Cancer (DDPC) as an
integrated knowledgebase of genes experimentally verified as implicated in PC.
DDPC is distinctive from other databases in that (i) it provides pre-compiled
biomedical text-mining information on PC, which otherwise require tedious
computational analyses, (ii) it integrates data on molecular interactions,
pathways, gene ontologies, gene regulation at molecular level, predicted
transcription factor binding sites on promoters of PC implicated genes and
transcription factors that correspond to these binding sites and (iii) it
contains DrugBank data on drugs associated with PC. We believe this resource will
serve as a source of useful information for research on PC. DDPC is freely
accessible for academic and non-profit users via http://apps.sanbi.ac.za/ddpc/
and http://cbrc.kaust.edu.sa/ddpc/.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkq849 
PMCID: PMC3013759
PMID: 20880996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

