
1. World J Urol. 1994;12(6):345-51.

Detection of P53 tumor-suppressor-gene protein in bladder tumors and prostate
cancer: possible clinical implications.

Kuczyk MA(1), Serth J, Hervatin C, Arndt H, Derendorf L, Thon WF, Jonas U.

Author information: 
(1)Urologische Klinik der Medizinischen Hochschule, Hannover, Germany.

For a variety of human malignancies such as breast cancer and cancer of the
prostate, p53 oncoprotein overexpression indicating an alteration of the p53
tumor-suppressor gene has been described as a prognostic factor for a poor
clinical outcome. To investigate the overexpression of p53 oncoprotein in
transitional-cell carcinoma of the bladder, 58 bladder cancer specimens of
different clinical stages and histological grades were investigated using an
immunohistochemical approach. A correlation between p53 positivity and tumor
stage was observed, with an increase from 38.5% of superficial (Ta) tumors to
83.3% of muscle-invasive (T3/T4) tumors staining positively for p53 oncoprotein. 
Furthermore, an increase from 46.7% of G1 tumors to 75% of G3 tumors was
observed. In 22 of 25 (87%) informative patients the results of the
immunohistochemical staining could be verified by the determination of p53
mutations as detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-directed analysis of
restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms (RFLP). To determine the prognostic
value of p53 immunohistochemistry for the clinical course of superficial bladder 
cancer, the overexpression of p53 oncoprotein was investigated in 41 patients
with superficial bladder tumors (T1) undergoing complete transurethral tumor
resection. The detection of p53 protein was correlated with further clinically
important variables such as sex, age, histological grading, former instillation
therapy, and immunohistochemical determination of the proliferation rate by
staining for PCNA (proliferating-cell nuclear antigen; monoclonal antibody
PC10).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/bf00184117 
PMID: 7881474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

