
1. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 1998-1999;17(4):439-42.

Metastasis-related genes in prostate cancer: the role of caveolin-1.

Thompson TC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas Medical Center,
Houston, USA.

Prostate cancer continues to be a significant cause of death in U.S. men despite 
screening of asymptomatic men and extensive treatment with potentially curative
therapies, predominantly radical prostatectomy and irradiation therapy. The
reason for the persistent mortality resides in part in the presence of occult
metastases at the time of treatment. Currently there are no curative therapies
for metastatic prostate cancer. To better understand the metastatic phenotype in 
prostate cancer, we developed a strategy to compare and isolate mRNAs that are
expressed differentially in cell lines derived from primary versus metastatic
mouse prostate cancer using differential display-PCR. This strategy has proven to
be successful and multiple gene sequences associated with metastasis in this
model are being investigated. One of the genes isolated by this method was
caveolin-1. Caveolin-1 was found to be overexpressed not only in metastatic mouse
prostate cancer, but also human metastatic disease. Recent studies have indicated
that suppression of caveolin expression induces androgen sensitivity in
high-caveolin, androgen-insensitive mouse prostate cancer cells derived from
metastases. Overexpression of caveolin leads to androgen insensitivity in
low-caveolin, androgen-sensitive mouse prostate cancer cells. Caveolin-1,
therefore, is a metastasis-related gene and a candidate gene for
hormone-resistant prostate cancer in man.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006110326366 
PMID: 10453288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

