
1. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2009 Jun 5;150B(4):585-92. doi:
10.1002/ajmg.b.30853.

Detailed analysis of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) shows no association
with bipolar disorder in the Northern Swedish population.

Alaerts M(1), Ceulemans S, Forero D, Moens LN, De Zutter S, Heyrman L, Lenaerts
AS, Norrback KF, Goossens D, De Rijk P, Nilsson LG, Adolfsson R, Del-Favero J.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Molecular Genomics Group, Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB,
Antwerp, Belgium.

Through active reuptake of serotonin into presynaptic neurons, the serotonin
transporter (5-HTT) plays an important role in regulating serotonin
concentrations in the brain, and it is the site of binding for tricyclic
antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Therefore it
has been hypothesized that this transporter is involved in the etiology of
bipolar (BP) disorder. Inconsistent association study results for the SLC6A4 gene
encoding 5-HTT reported in literature emphasize the need for more systematic and 
detailed analyses of this candidate gene. We performed an extensive analysis of
SLC6A4 on DNA of 254 BPI patients and 364 control individuals from a Northern
Swedish isolated population. This analysis consisted of a HapMap LD-based
association study including three widely investigated polymorphisms (5-HTTVNTR,
5-HTTLPR, and rs3813034), a copy-number variation (CNV) analysis and a mutation
analysis of the complete coding sequence and the 3'-UTR of SLC6A4. No single
marker showed statistically significant association with BPI, nor did any of the 
haplotypes. In the mutation analysis 13 novel variants were detected, including 2
amino acid substitutions M389V and I587L, but these are probably not implicated
in risk for BP. No deletions or duplications were detected in the CNV analysis.
We conclude that variation in the SLC6A4 gene or its regulatory regions does not 
contribute to the susceptibility for BP disorder in the Northern Swedish
population.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.30853 
PMID: 18792946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

