
1. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2013 Mar;16(2):289-99. doi:
10.1017/S1461145712000363. Epub 2012 May 9.

H3K4 tri-methylation in synapsin genes leads to different expression patterns in 
bipolar disorder and major depression.

Cruceanu C(1), Alda M, Nagy C, Freemantle E, Rouleau GA, Turecki G.

Author information: 
(1)McGill Group for Suicide Studies, Douglas Mental Health University Institute, 
McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.

The synapsin family of neuronal phosphoproteins is composed of three genes (SYN1,
SYN2 and SYN3) with alternative splicing resulting in a number of variants with
various levels of homology. These genes have been postulated to play significant 
roles in several neuropsychiatric disorders, including bipolar disorder,
schizophrenia and epilepsy. Epigenetic regulatory mechanisms, such as histone
modifications in gene regulatory regions, have also been proposed to play a role 
in a number of psychiatric disorders, including bipolar disorder and major
depressive disorder. One of the best characterized histone modifications is
histone 3 lysine 4 tri-methylation (H3K4me3), an epigenetic mark shown to be
highly enriched at transcriptional start sites and associated with active
transcription. In the present study we have quantified the expression of
transcript variants of the three synapsin genes and investigated their
relationship to H3K4me3 promoter enrichment in post-mortem brain samples. We
found that histone modification marks were significantly increased in bipolar
disorder and major depression and this effect was correlated with significant
increases in gene expression. Our findings suggest that synapsin dysregulation in
mood disorders is mediated in part by epigenetic regulatory mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1017/S1461145712000363 
PMCID: PMC3564952
PMID: 22571925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

