
1. Am J Med Genet. 1998 May 8;81(3):225-7.

Analysis of a novel functional polymorphism within the promoter region of the
serotonin transporter gene (5-HTT) in Brazilian patients affected by bipolar
disorder and schizophrenia.

Mendes de Oliveira JR(1), Otto PA, Vallada H, Lauriano V, Elkis H, Lafer B,
Vasquez L, Gentil V, Passos-Bueno MR, Zatz M.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo,
Brazil.

It has been suggested that the serotonin transporter
(5-hydroxytryptamine-transporter or 5-HTT) may be involved in the pathogenesis of
affective disorders. Recently, Collier et al. (1996) found that the frequency of 
the low-activity short variant (s) of the 5-HTT-linked polymorphic region
(5-HTTLPR) was higher among patients with affective disorders than in normal
controls. However, since the observed level of significance was not high, they
suggest that these findings should be replicated in independent samples. We have 
analyzed 86 unrelated patients (47 with bipolar disorder and 39 with
schizophrenia) and 98 normal controls from the Brazilian population for the
5-HTTLPR. Statistical analysis revealed that the genotypes (LL, Ls, ss) as well
as the estimated allele frequencies (L,s) did not differ significantly among the 
three studied groups or between bipolar and normal controls. In addition,
although not statistically significant, the genotype ss in our sample was less
frequent among our bipolar patients than in our normal controls (12.8% versus
16.3%) which is the opposite of what was found by Collier et al. (24% versus 18%)
in the European study. Although it will be important to extend the present
analysis in a larger sample, our preliminary results suggest that the 5-HTTLPR
does not seem to play a major role in the genetics of bipolar and schizophrenic
disorders at least in this group of Brazilian psychiatric patients.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-8628(19980508)81:3<225::aid-ajmg4>3.0.co;2-v 
PMID: 9603609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

