
1. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2004 Aug 15;129B(1):29-33.

Lack of association between 5HT2A receptor gene haplotype, bipolar disorder and
its clinical subtypes in a West European sample.

Etain B(1), Rousseva A, Roy I, Henry C, Malafosse A, Buresi C, Preisig M, Rayah
F, Leboyer M, Bellivier F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Henri Mondor Hospital, AP-HP, Cr√©teil, France.
etain@im3.inserm.fr

Bipolar affective disorder (BPAD) is a complex psychiatric disorder with a major 
genetic contribution. Abnormalities in serotonergic function have been implicated
in its aetiology. The 5HT2A receptor (5HT2AR) gene is a strong candidate gene for
involvement in BPAD, but previous association studies have reported conflicting
results. These data are difficult to interpret because most negative results were
obtained with small samples. The aim of this study was to test the association
between the 5HT2AR gene and BPAD in a large West European sample. We studied the 
-1438G/A and the His452Tyr polymorphisms, for haplotype analysis to increase both
informativity and the likelihood of detecting an association between BPAD and the
5HT2AR gene. We analysed the genotype, allele and haplotype distributions of two 
5HT2AR gene variants in a population of 356 BPAD patients, which we compared with
208 healthy controls. We also carried out exploratory analysis in clinical
subgroups of patients defined according to personal history of mood disorders,
suicidal behaviour, comorbid psychiatric disorders and family history of
affective disorders. We found no difference between BPAD patients and controls
for allele, genotype and haplotype distributions. Exploratory analysis in
subgroups of BPAD patients showed only a marginal difference in haplotype
distribution between controls and BPAD patients with antidepressant-induced mania
(P = 0.018). This difference was not significant after correction for multiple
testing. Our study suggests that the 5HT2AR gene is unlikely to be involved in
genetic susceptibility to BPAD but should be further investigated in a
pharmacogenetic study.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.30055 
PMID: 15274035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

