
1. Mol Psychiatry. 2002;7(2):201-7.

Excess of allele1 for alpha3 subunit GABA receptor gene (GABRA3) in bipolar
patients: a multicentric association study.

Massat I(1), Souery D, Del-Favero J, Oruc L, Noethen MM, Blackwood D, Thomson M, 
Muir W, Papadimitriou GN, Dikeos DG, Kaneva R, Serretti A, Lilli R, Smeraldi E,
Jakovljevic M, Folnegovic V, Rietschel M, Milanova V, Valente F, Van Broeckhoven 
C, Mendlewicz J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University Clinics of Brussels, Erasme Hospital,
Free University of Brussels, Belgium. imassat@ulb.ac.be

The available data from preclinical and pharmacological studies on the role of
gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) support the hypothesis that a dysfunction in
brain GABAergic system activity contributes to the vulnerability to bipolar
affective disorders (BPAD). Moreover, the localization of the alpha3 subunit GABA
receptor GABRA3 gene on the Xq28, a region of interest in certain forms of
bipolar illness, suggests that GABRA3 may be a candidate gene in BPAD. In the
present study, we tested the genetic contribution of the GABRA3 dinucleotide
polymorphism in a European multicentric case-control sample, matched for sex and 
ethnogeographical origin. Allele and genotype (in females) frequencies were
compared in 185 BPAD patients and 370 controls. A significant increase of
genotype 1-1 was observed in BPAD females compared to controls (P=0.0004).
Furthermore, when considering recessivity of allele 1 (females with genotype 1-1 
and males carrying allele 1), results were even more significant (P= 0.00002).
Our findings suggest that the GABRA3 polymorphism may confer susceptibility to or
may be in linkage disequilibrium with another gene involved in the genetic
etiology of BPAD.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.mp.4000953 
PMID: 11840313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

