
1. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 1994 Mar;22(1-4):121-31.

Protein-DNA interactions in the promoter region of the amyloid precursor protein 
(APP) gene in human neocortex.

Lukiw WJ(1), Rogaev EI, Wong L, Vaula G, McLachlan DR, St George Hyslop P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, Canada.

We have investigated protein-DNA interactions in the proximal promoter of the
human amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene in temporal lobe neocortical nuclei
isolated from control and Alzheimer disease (AD) affected brains. We report that 
the human APP 5' promoter sequence from -203 to +55 bp, which has been previously
reported to contain essential regulatory elements for APP gene transcription,
lies in a deoxyribonuclease I, micrococcal nuclease- and restriction
endonuclease-sensitive, G+C-rich nucleosome-free gap flanked both 5' and 3' by
typical nucleosome structures. As analyzed by electrophoretic mobility shift
assay, this extended internucleosomal linker DNA is heavily occupied by nuclear
protein factors, and interacts differentially with nuclear protein extracts
obtained from HeLa and human brain neocortical nuclei. This suggests that the
chromatin conformation of the APP gene promoter may vary in different cell types,
and may correlate with differences in APP gene expression. Human recombinant
transcription factors AP1, SP1 and TFIID (but not AP2 or brain histones H1, H2B
and H4) interact with the -203 to +55 bp of the human APP promoter sequence. Only
minor differences were observed in the chromatin structure of the immediate APP
promoter between non-AD and AD affected neocortical nuclei, suggesting either
that post-transcriptional processes, or that regulatory elements lying elsewhere 
in the APP gene may be important in the aberrant accumulation of the APP gene
product.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-328x(94)90039-6 
PMID: 8015372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

