
1. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e56034. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056034. Epub 2013 Feb 14.

Selection of appropriate reference genes for RT-qPCR analysis in a
streptozotocin-induced Alzheimer's disease model of cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca
fascicularis).

Park SJ(1), Kim YH, Lee Y, Kim KM, Kim HS, Lee SR, Kim SU, Kim SH, Kim JS, Jeong 
KJ, Lee KM, Huh JW, Chang KT.

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Ochang, Chungbuk, Republic of Korea.

Reverse transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) 
has been widely used to quantify relative gene expression because of the
specificity, sensitivity, and accuracy of this technique. In order to obtain
reliable gene expression data from RT-qPCR experiments, it is important to
utilize optimal reference genes for the normalization of target gene expression
under varied experimental conditions. Previously, we developed and validated a
novel icv-STZ cynomolgus monkey model for Alzheimer's disease (AD) research.
However, in order to enhance the reliability of this disease model, appropriate
reference genes must be selected to allow meaningful analysis of the gene
expression levels in the icv-STZ cynomolgus monkey brain. In this study, we
assessed the expression stability of 9 candidate reference genes in 2
matched-pair brain samples (5 regions) of control cynomolgus monkeys and those
who had received intracerebroventricular injection of streptozotocin (icv-STZ).
Three well-known analytical programs geNorm, NormFinder, and BestKeeper were used
to choose the suitable reference genes from the total sample group, control
group, and icv-STZ group. Combination analysis of the 3 different programs
clearly indicated that the ideal reference genes are RPS19 and YWHAZ in the total
sample group, GAPDH and RPS19 in the control group, and ACTB and GAPDH in the
icv-STZ group. Additionally, we validated the normalization accuracy of the most 
appropriate reference genes (RPS19 and YWHAZ) by comparison with the least stable
gene (TBP) using quantification of the APP and MAPT genes in the total sample
group. To the best of our knowledge, this research is the first study to identify
and validate the appropriate reference genes in cynomolgus monkey brains. These
findings provide useful information for future studies involving the expression
of target genes in the cynomolgus monkey.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056034 
PMCID: PMC3573079
PMID: 23457495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

