
1. Neurobiol Aging. 2014 Mar;35(3):726.e11-9. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.09.009. Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Investigating the role of rare heterozygous TREM2 variants in Alzheimer's disease
and frontotemporal dementia.

Cuyvers E(1), Bettens K, Philtjens S, Van Langenhove T, Gijselinck I, van der Zee
J, Engelborghs S, Vandenbulcke M, Van Dongen J, Geerts N, Maes G, Mattheijssens
M, Peeters K, Cras P, Vandenberghe R, De Deyn PP, Van Broeckhoven C, Cruts M,
Sleegers K; BELNEU consortium.

Collaborators: De Bleecker J, Santens P, Sieben A, Dermaut B, Ivanoiu A, Deryck
O, Brugmans B, Versijpt J, Michotte A, Willems C, Salmon E.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group, Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB,
Antwerp, Belgium; Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.

Homozygous mutations in exon 2 of TREM2, a gene involved in Nasu-Hakola disease, 
can cause frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Moreover, a rare TREM2 exon 2 variant
(p.R47H) was reported to increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) with an
odds ratio as strong as that for APOEε4. We systematically screened the TREM2
coding region within a Belgian study on neurodegenerative brain diseases (1216 AD
patients, 357 FTD patients, and 1094 controls). We observed an enrichment of rare
variants across TREM2 in both AD and FTD patients compared to controls, most
notably in the extracellular IgV-set domain (relative risk = 3.84 [95% confidence
interval = 1.29-11.44]; p = 0.009 for AD; relative risk = 6.19 [95% confidence
interval = 1.86-20.61]; p = 0.0007 for FTD). None of the rare variants
individually reached significant association, but the frequency of p.R47H was
increased ~ 3-fold in both AD and FTD patients compared to controls, in line with
previous reports. Meta-analysis including 11 previously screened AD cohorts
confirmed the association of p.R47H with AD (p = 2.93×10(-17)). Our data
corroborate and extend previous findings to include an increased frequency of
rare heterozygous TREM2 variations in AD and FTD, and show that TREM2 variants
may play a role in neurodegenerative diseases in general.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.09.009 
PMID: 24119542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

