
1. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2010 Aug;1801(8):762-73. doi: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2010.05.009.
Epub 2010 May 24.

Cholesterol-related genes in Alzheimer's disease.

Wollmer MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Psychiatric University Clinics, University of Basel, 4025 Basel, Switzerland. 
marcaxel.wollmer@upkbs.ch

Experimental data show that cholesterol can modulate central processes in the
pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The epidemiological link between
elevated plasma cholesterol at midlife and increased risk for AD and the
possibility that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzym A reductase inhibitors
(statins) may be protective against AD support a role of cholesterol metabolism
in AD and have rendered it a potential therapeutic target in the treatment and
prevention of the disease. The strong association of AD and AD endophenotypes
with the APOE gene provides a genetic link between AD and cholesterol metabolism,
because the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is the most prevalent cholesterol transport
protein in the central nervous system. Against this background several other
genes with a role in cholesterol metabolism have been investigated for
association with AD. In this review a compilation of genes related to cholesterol
based on the information of the AmiGo gene ontology database is matched with the 
AlzGene database of AD candidate genes. 56 out of 149 (37.6%) genes with a
relation to cholesterol metabolism have been investigated for association with
AD. Given that only 660 out of about 23,000 (2.9%) genes have been assessed in
hypothesis-driven candidate gene studies on AD, the cholesterol metabolic pathway
is strongly represented among these genes. Among 34 cholesterol-related genes for
which association with AD has been described APOE, CH25H, CLU, LDLR, SORL1
outstand with positive meta-analyses. However, it is unclear, if their
association with AD is mediated by cholesterol-related mechanisms or by more
specific direct effects of the respective proteins on Abeta metabolism.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2010.05.009 
PMID: 20580938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

