
1. Neurol Sci. 2015 Oct;36(10):1881-8. doi: 10.1007/s10072-015-2274-2. Epub 2015 Jun
3.

TREM2 variants and risk of Alzheimer's disease: a meta-analysis.

Lu Y(1), Liu W(2), Wang X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
(2)Department of Public Health, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
tjhwangxiong@163.com.

Recent studies show that heterozygous variant of triggering receptor expressed on
myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) but with
inconclusive results. Here, we conducted a meta-analysis to summarize and clarify
the association between TREM2 variants and AD, and examined the relationship
between TREM2 genetic variant and the etiology of AD. Relevant case-control
studies were retrieved and collected according to established inclusion criteria.
Odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were used to estimate the
associations between three TREM2 variants (rs75932628, rs104894002, and
rs143332484) and AD. In overall meta-analysis, the summary ORs for rs75932628,
rs104894002, and rs143332484 were 2.70 [95% CI: 2.24, 3.24; P < 0.001], 7.21 (95%
CI: 1.28, 40.78; P = 0.025), and 1.65 (95% CI: 1.24, 2.21; P = 0.001),
respectively, indicating that the TREM2 rs75932628, rs104894002, and rs143332484 
may contribute to AD risk. However, sensitivity analysis showed that the results 
of rs104894002 and rs143332484 should be interpreted with caution, and larger
sample size, particularly in different ethnicities, are needed to validate the
two variants. The current meta-analysis demonstrates that TREM2 is a candidate
gene for AD susceptibility, and TREM2 variant rs75932628 may be a risk factor for
AD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-015-2274-2 
PMID: 26037549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

