
1. Neurosci Lett. 2007 Sep 25;425(2):105-9. Epub 2007 Aug 25.

Association between genetic variants in sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) and
Alzheimer's disease in adults with Down syndrome.

Lee JH(1), Chulikavit M, Pang D, Zigman WB, Silverman W, Schupf N.

Author information: 
(1)The Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain,
Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.

Recent reports have suggested that variants in the sortilin-related receptor gene
(SORL1) increase the risk of late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) in Northern
European, Hispanic, African-American and Isreali-Arab populations. SORL1 directs 
trafficking of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and under-expression of SORL1 may 
lead to over-expression of beta amyloid peptides. Adults with Down syndrome (DS) 
over-express APP and have early onset and high risk for AD. We investigated the
relation of seven variants in the gene for SORL1 to age at onset and risk for AD 
among 208 adults with DS, 45-70 years of age at baseline. Participants were
ascertained through the New York State developmental disability service system
and followed at 18-month intervals. Information from cognitive assessments,
caregiver interviews, medical record review and neurological examination was used
to establish the diagnosis of dementia. Homozygosity for the minor T allele in
rs556349 and for the minor C allele in rs536360 was associated with later age at 
onset and reduced risk of AD (HR=0.26, 95% CI: 0.08-0.86; and HR=0.40, 95% CI:
0.16-0.98, respectively). Mean age at onset was approximately four years later in
individuals who were homozygous for those alleles compared with those who had at 
least one major allele. These findings indicate a modest association of variants 
in SORL1 with AD. In addition, we did not observe the same alleles to be
associated with AD compared with earlier studies, suggesting that these SNPs are 
in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with the putative functional variants or that
expression of the SORL1 gene and hence its interaction with APP might be modified
by the extremely high levels of APP characteristic of Down syndrome. Thus,
further studies are needed to identify functional variants that influence risk
for AD in this uniquely vulnerable population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2007.08.042 
PMCID: PMC2131721
PMID: 17826910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

