
1. Hum Hered. 2016;81(3):129-141. doi: 10.1159/000452256. Epub 2016 Dec 22.

From Common to Rare Variants: The Genetic Component of Alzheimer Disease.

Nicolas G(1), Charbonnier C, Campion D.

Author information: 
(1)CNR-MAJ, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.

Alzheimer disease (AD) is a remarkable example of genetic heterogeneity.
Extremely rare variants in the APP, PSEN1, or PSEN2 genes, or duplications of the
APP gene cause autosomal dominant forms, generally with complete penetrance by
the age of 65 years. Nonautosomal dominant forms are considered as a complex
disorder with a high genetic component, whatever the age of onset. Although
genetically heterogeneous, AD is defined by the same neuropathological criteria
in all configurations. According to the amyloid cascade hypothesis, the Aβ
peptide, which aggregates in AD brains, is a key player. APP, PSEN1, or PSEN2
gene mutations increase the production of more aggregation-prone forms of the Aβ 
peptide, triggering the pathological process. Several risk factors identified in 
association studies hit genes involved in Aβ production/secretion, aggregation,
clearance, or toxicity. Among them, the APOE ε4 allele is a rare example of a
common allele with a large effect size, the ORs ranging from 4 to 11-14 for
heterozygous and homozygous carriers, respectively. In addition, genome-wide
association studies have identified more than two dozen loci with a weak but
significant association, the OR of the at-risk allele ranging from 1.08 to 1.30. 
Recently, the use of massive parallel sequencing has enabled the analysis of rare
variants in a genome-wide manner. Two rare variants have been nominally
associated with AD risk or protection (TREM2 p.R47H, MAF approximately 0.002, OR 
approximately 4 and APP p.A673T, MAF approximately 0.0005, OR approximately 0.2).
Association analyses at the gene level identified rare loss-of-function and
missense, predicted damaging, variants (MAF <0.01) in the SORL1 and ABCA7 genes
associated with a moderate relative risk (OR approximately 5 and approximately
2.8, respectively). Although the latter analyses revealed association signals
with moderately rare variants by collapsing them, the power to detect genes hit
by extremely rare variants is still limited. An alternative approach is to
consider the de novo paradigm, stating that de novo variants may contribute to AD
genetics in sporadic patients. Here, we critically review AD genetics reports
with a special focus on rare variants.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000452256 
PMID: 28002825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

