
1. Mol Med Rep. 2018 Nov;18(5):4297-4302. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9424. Epub 2018 Aug 
24.

Elevated methylation of OPRM1 and OPRL1 genes in Alzheimer's disease.

Xu C(1), Liu G(2), Ji H(1), Chen W(1), Dai D(1), Chen Z(3), Zhou D(3), Xu L(1),
Hu H(1), Cui W(1), Chang L(1), Zha Q(4), Li L(1), Duan S(1), Wang Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ningbo Key Laboratory of Behavioral Neuroscience, Zhejiang Provincial Key
Laboratory of Pathophysiology, School of Medicine, Ningbo University, Ningbo,
Zhejiang 315211, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Science and Education, Ningbo No. 9 Hospital, Ningbo, Zhejiang
315010, P.R. China.
(3)Geriatrics Department, Ningbo Kangning Hospital, Ningbo, Zhejiang 315200, P.R.
China.
(4)Department of Science and Education, The Affiliated Hospital of Ningbo
University, Ningbo, Zhejiang 315200, P.R. China.

Previous studies have suggested that increased opioid receptor κ1 (OPRK1) and
opioid receptor δ1 (OPRD1) methylation levels are involved in Alzheimer's disease
(AD). In the present study, the methylation levels of two opioid receptor genes, 
opioid receptor µ1 (OPRM1) and opioid related nociceptin receptor 1 (OPRL1), were
analyzed for their association with AD. Gene methylation levels were measured
using bisulfite pyrosequencing in DNA samples derived from blood samples of 51 AD
patients and 63 controls. The results indicated that there were significantly
elevated promoter methylation levels of OPRM1 and OPRL1 in AD (OPRM1: P=0.007;
OPRL1: P=2.987x10‑6). Dual‑luciferase reporter gene assays demonstrated that the 
promoter fragments of these two genes were able to promote gene expression
(OPRM1: Fold‑change=2.616, P=0.003; OPRL1: Fold change=11.395, P=0.007). In
addition, receiver operating characteristic analyses further indicated that a
methylation panel of four opioid receptor genes (area under the curve=0.848,
sensitivity=0.723, and specificity=0.879) performed well in the prediction of AD.
These results suggested that opioid receptor genes may be used as potential
methylation biomarkers for the diagnosis of AD.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9424 
PMCID: PMC6172396
PMID: 30152845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

