
1. Neurobiol Aging. 2019 Dec;84:98-108. doi: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2019.07.004.
Epub 2019 Jul 16.

Supervised pathway analysis of blood gene expression profiles in Alzheimer's
disease.

Moradi E(1), Marttinen M(2), Häkkinen T(3), Hiltunen M(2), Nykter M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, Tampere University, Tampere,
Finland. Electronic address: elaheh.moradi@tuni.fi.
(2)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(3)Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, Tampere University, Tampere,
Finland.

Early identification and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is hampered by the
lack of easily accessible biomarkers. Currently available fluid biomarkers of AD 
provide indications of the disease stage; however, these are measured in the
cerebrospinal fluid, requiring invasive procedures, which are not applicable at
the population level. Thus, gene expression profiling of blood provides a viable 
alternative as a way to screen individuals at risk of AD. Previous studies have
shown that despite the limited permeability of the blood-brain barriers,
expression profiles of blood genes can be used for the diagnosis and prognosis of
several brain disorders. Here, we propose a new approach to pathway analysis of
blood gene expression profiles to classify healthy (control [CTL]), mildly
cognitively impaired (mild cognitive impairment [MCI]; preclinical stage of AD), 
and AD subjects. In the pathway analysis, gene expression data are mapped to
pathway scores according to a predefined gene set instead of considering each
gene separately. The robustness of the analysis enables detection of weak
differences between groups owing to the inherent dimension reduction. Our
proposed method for pathway analysis takes advantage of linear discriminant
analysis for identifying a linear combination of features best separating groups 
of subjects within each gene set. The gene expression data were retrieved from
Gene Expression Omnibus (batch 1: GSE63060; batch 2: GSE63061). Predefined gene
sets for pathway analysis were obtained from the Broad Institute Collection of
Curated Pathways. The method achieved a 10-fold cross-validated area under
receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.84 for classification of AD versus
CTL and 0.80 for classification of mild cognitive impairment versus CTL. These
results reveal the good potential of blood-based biomarkers for assisting early
diagnosis and disease monitoring of AD.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2019.07.004 
PMID: 31522136 

