
1. Sci Rep. 2019 Dec 27;9(1):20142. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-56632-3.

Matrisome-Associated Gene Expression Patterns Correlating with TIMP2 in Cancer.

Peeney D(1), Fan Y(2), Nguyen T(2), Meerzaman D(2), Stetler-Stevenson WG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Extracellular Matrix Pathology Section, Laboratory of Pathology, National
Cancer Institute, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
david.peeney@nih.gov.
(2)Computational Genomics and Bioinformatics Group, Center for Biomedical
Informatics & Information Technology, National Cancer Institute, National
Institute of Health, Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(3)Extracellular Matrix Pathology Section, Laboratory of Pathology, National
Cancer Institute, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Remodeling of the extracellular matrix (ECM) to facilitate invasion and
metastasis is a universal hallmark of cancer progression. However, a definitive
therapeutic target remains to be identified in this tissue compartment. As major 
modulators of ECM structure and function, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are
highly expressed in cancer and have been shown to support tumor progression. MMP 
enzymatic activity is inhibited by the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase
(TIMP1-4) family of proteins, suggesting that TIMPs may possess anti-tumor
activity. TIMP2 is a promiscuous MMP inhibitor that is ubiquitously expressed in 
normal tissues. In this study, we address inconsistencies in the literature
regarding the role of TIMP2 in tumor progression by analyzing co-expressed genes 
in tumor vs. normal tissue. Utilizing data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and
Genotype-Tissue expression studies, focusing on breast and lung carcinomas, we
analyzed the correlation between TIMP2 expression and the transcriptome to
identify a list of genes whose expression is highly correlated with TIMP2 in
tumor tissues. Bioinformatic analysis of the identified gene list highlights a
core of matrix and matrix-associated genes that are of interest as potential
modulators of TIMP2 function, thus ECM structure, identifying potential tumor
microenvironment biomarkers and/or therapeutic targets for further study.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-56632-3 
PMCID: PMC6934702
PMID: 31882975 

