
1. J Cell Biochem. 2019 Dec 30. doi: 10.1002/jcb.29633. [Epub ahead of print]

Gene expression and DNA methylation analyses suggest that immune process-related 
ADCY6 is a prognostic factor of luminal-like breast cancer.

Li W(1), Sang M(1)(2), Hao X(1)(3), Jia L(1), Wang Y(1), Shan B(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, China.
(2)Tumor Research Institute, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, China.
(3)Department of Radiological, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, China.

Breast cancer is a malignant tumor that seriously threatens women's health, and
luminal-like cancer subtypes account for the majority of the cases. The purpose
of this study was to investigate the relationships among DNA methylation, gene
expression profile, and the tumor-immune microenvironment of luminal-like breast 
cancer, and to identify the potential key genes that regulate immune cell
infiltration in luminal-like breast cancer. The ESTIMATE algorithm was applied to
calculate immune scores and stromal scores of patients with breast cancer.
Kaplan-Meier curves were generated for survival analysis. The clusterProfile
package was used for Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes
analysis. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed using the
STRING database and Cytoscape software. Correlations between ADCY6 expression and
immune cell infiltration-related pathways were analyzed by gene set variation
analysis. R software was used for the statistical analysis and figure generation.
Disease-free survival was higher in the immune score-high group than it was in
the immune score-low group, while the stromal score had no correlation with
prognosis. There were 515 genes that differed in both gene expression and DNA
methylation levels, and these genes were mainly enriched in immune
process-related pathways. ADCY6 was enriched in module A of the PPI network.
Patients with downregulation and hypermethylation of ADCY6 associated with a
better prognosis. ADCY6 expression was negatively correlated with the activation 
of immune process-related signaling pathways, immune checkpoint receptors, and
ligands, except for CLEC4G. DNA methylation was found to be involved in the
regulation of the key cellular pathways of luminal-like breast cancer immune cell
infiltration. Additionally, ADCY6 was identified as a prognostic factor involved 
in the DNA methylation-regulated immune processes in luminal-like breast cancer.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.29633 
PMID: 31886586 

