
1. NPJ Genom Med. 2020 Jan 31;5:8. doi: 10.1038/s41525-020-0114-7. eCollection 2020.

Evidence for an ancient BRCA1 pathogenic variant in inherited breast cancer
patients from Senegal.

Ndiaye R(1)(2)(3), Diop JPD(1), Bourdon-Huguenin V(4), Dem A(5), Diouf D(5),
Dieng MM(5), Diop PS(2), Kane Gueye SM(2), Ba SA(1), Dia Y(1), Ka S(5), Mbengue
B(2), Thiam A(6), Sylla Niang M(2), Gueye PM(2), Faye O(1), Lopez Sall P(2),
Cisse A(2), Diop PA(2), Sobol H(4), Dieye A(2).

Author information: 
(1)1Laboratory of Cytology, Cytogenetics and Reproductive Biology, Aristide Le
Dantec Hospital, Dakar, Senegal.
(2)2Faculty of Medicine, Pharmacy and Odontology, University Cheikh Anta Diop,
Dakar, Senegal.
(3)African Center of Excellence for Mother and Child Health (CEA-SAMEF), Dakar,
Senegal.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Oncogenetics, Paoli-Calmette Institute, Marseille,
France.
(5)5Joliot Curie Institute, Aristide Le Dantec Hospital, Dakar, Senegal.
(6)6Pasteur Institute of Dakar, Dakar, Senegal.

BRCA1 and BRCA2 are the most incriminated genes in inherited breast/ovarian
cancers. Several pathogenic variants of these genes conferring genetic
predisposition have been described in different populations but rarely in
sub-Saharan Africa. The objectives of this study were to identify pathogenic
variants of the BRCA genes involved in hereditary breast cancer in Senegal and to
search for a founder effect. We recruited after free informed consent, 27
unrelated index cases diagnosed with breast cancer and each having a family
history. Mutation screening of the genes identified a duplication of ten
nucleotides c.815_824dupAGCCATGTGG, (p.Thr276Alafs) (NM_007294.3) located in exon
11 of BRCA1 gene, in 15 index cases (allelic frequency 27.7%). The pathogenic
variant has been previously reported in African Americans as a founder mutation
of West African origin. Haplotypes analysis of seven microsatellites surrounding 
the BRCA1 gene highlights a shared haplotype encompassing ~400 kb between D17S855
and D17S1325. This haplotype was not detected in none of 15 healthy controls.
Estimation of the age of the pathogenic variant suggested that it occurred ~1400 
years ago. Our study identified a founder pathogenic variant of BRCA1
predisposing to breast cancer and enabled the establishment of an affordable
genetic test as a mean of prevention for Senegalese women at risk.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1038/s41525-020-0114-7 
PMCID: PMC6994613
PMID: 32025337 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no
competing interests.

