
1. Biochem J. 2020 Jan 17;477(1):137-160. doi: 10.1042/BCJ20190596.

A lysosome independent role for TFEB in activating DNA repair and inhibiting
apoptosis in breast cancer cells.

Slade L(1), Biswas D(1), Ihionu F(1), El Hiani Y(2), Kienesberger PC(1),
Pulinilkunnil T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Dalhousie University,
Dalhousie Medicine New Brunswick, Saint John, NB, Canada.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie
University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

Transcription factor EB (TFEB) is a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and 
autophagy with critical roles in several cancers. Lysosomal autophagy promotes
cancer survival through the degradation of toxic molecules and the maintenance of
adequate nutrient supply. Doxorubicin (DOX) is the standard of care treatment for
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC); however, chemoresistance at lower doses and
toxicity at higher doses limit its usefulness. By targeting pathways of survival,
DOX can become an effective antitumor agent. In this study, we examined the role 
of TFEB in TNBC and its relationship with autophagy and DNA damage induced by
DOX. In TNBC cells, TFEB was hypo-phosphorylated and localized to the nucleus
upon DOX treatment. TFEB knockdown decreased the viability of TNBC cells while
increasing caspase-3 dependent apoptosis. Additionally, inhibition of the
TFEB-phosphatase calcineurin sensitized cells to DOX-induced apoptosis in a TFEB 
dependent fashion. Regulation of apoptosis by TFEB was not a consequence of
altered lysosomal function, as TFEB continued to protect against apoptosis in the
presence of lysosomal inhibitors. RNA-Seq analysis of MDA-MB-231 cells with TFEB 
silencing identified a down-regulation in cell cycle and homologous recombination
genes while interferon-γ and death receptor signaling genes were up-regulated. In
consequence, TFEB knockdown disrupted DNA repair following DOX, as evidenced by
persistent γH2A.X detection. Together, these findings describe in TNBC a novel
lysosomal independent function for TFEB in responding to DNA damage.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the
Biochemical Society.

DOI: 10.1042/BCJ20190596 
PMID: 31820786 

