
1. Cancers (Basel). 2020 Jan 23;12(2). pii: E283. doi: 10.3390/cancers12020283.

The Association of IL-1 and HRAS Gene Polymorphisms with Breast Cancer
Susceptibility in a Jordanian Population of Arab Descent: A Genotype-Phenotype
Study.

Al-Eitan LN(1)(2), Al-Ahmad BH(1), Almomani FA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biological Sciences, Jordan University of Science and
Technology, Irbid 22110, Jordan.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Jordan University of
Science and Technology, Irbid 22110, Jordan.

Breast cancer (BC) pathogenesis is poorly understood and not yet completely
determined. BC susceptibility genes are responsible for 20% to 25% of breast
cancer risk. The main objective of this study is to identify the genetic
polymorphisms within the Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (HRAS1) and
interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL1-Ra) genes in Jordanian BC female patients 
and to investigate the genetic association of these polymorphisms with BC.
Samples were collected from 150 Jordanian BC patients and 187 healthy age-matched
controls. PCR and PCR-RFLP techniques were used to identify genetic polymorphisms
within these candidate genes. The single nucleotide polymorphism single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) association web tool SNPStats (v. 3.6) was used to 
investigate the allelic and genotypic association with BC. Different statistical 
analyses were used to study the correlation between the investigated genetic
variants and several prognosis factors of BC. A genetic association between BC
susceptibility and Il-1β rs1143634 was found specifically at the allelic level of
E1 as a risk allele (72% in the cases vs. 64.2% in the controls). Another genetic
association was found in the IL-Ra gene (86-VNTR (variable number tandem
repeat)), which presented one repeat allele (24.1% in cases vs. 15.59% in
controls) and could be considered as a risk allele in Jordanian women. In
contrast, this study found that there is no genetic association between Il-1β SNP
rs16944 and BC. In addition, a significant association was found between the
allelic level of the HRAS1 gene and BC susceptibility. Since this study is the
first to be conducted on the genetic susceptibility of these genes to BC in the
Jordanian population, more investigations on the link between BC and these
variants are recommended to determine the impact of these polymorphisms on other 
ethnic groups.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers12020283 
PMID: 31979384 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

