
1. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2020 Feb 4. pii: S0006-291X(20)30211-4. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.01.128. [Epub ahead of print]

RNA-seq based transcriptome analysis of EHMT2 functions in breast cancer.

Kim K(1), Ryu TY(1), Ryu JW(1), Han TS(1), Jung CR(2), Son MY(2), Kim DS(2), Cho 
HS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Daejeon, 34141,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Daejeon, 34141,
Republic of Korea; Department of Functional Genomics, Korea University of Science
and Technology, Daejeon, 34316, Republic of Korea.
(3)Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Daejeon, 34141,
Republic of Korea; Department of Functional Genomics, Korea University of Science
and Technology, Daejeon, 34316, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
chohs@kribb.re.kr.

For breast cancer treatment, hormone therapy is effective for hormone
receptor-positive breast cancer but not for TNBC (triple-negative breast cancer).
Thus, many researchers have attempted to identify more effective therapeutic
candidates for all subtypes of breast cancer. In this study, we established an
RNA-seq analytical pipeline to analyze the subtype-specific functions of EHMT2 in
the MB231 and MCF7 cell lines. After EHMT2 knockdown, we identified
subtype-specific DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and overlapping DEGs.
Through GO (Gene Ontology) analysis, GSEA (gene set enrichment analysis), and
KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) analysis using the DEGs, we
identified the subtype-specific functions of EHMT2 in the MB231 and MCF7 cell
lines. Therefore, herein, we suggest that EHMT2 is an attractive therapeutic
target for the treatment of all types of breast cancer.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.01.128 
PMID: 32033749 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflicts of interest.

