
1. Front Oncol. 2020 Jan 14;9:1536. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2019.01536. eCollection 2019.

Is Lactate an Oncometabolite? Evidence Supporting a Role for Lactate in the
Regulation of Transcriptional Activity of Cancer-Related Genes in MCF7 Breast
Cancer Cells.

San-Millán I(1)(2), Julian CG(3), Matarazzo C(3), Martinez J(1), Brooks GA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes,
University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, United States.
(2)Department of Human Physiology and Nutrition, University of Colorado, Colorado
Springs, CO, United States.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO,
United States.
(4)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
Berkeley, CA, United States.

Lactate is a ubiquitous molecule in cancer. In this exploratory study, our aim
was to test the hypothesis that lactate could function as an oncometabolite by
evaluating whether lactate exposure modifies the expression of oncogenes, or
genes encoding transcription factors, cell division, and cell proliferation in
MCF7 cells, a human breast cancer cell line. Gene transcription was compared
between MCF7 cells incubated in (a) glucose/glutamine-free media (control), (b)
glucose-containing media to stimulate endogenous lactate production (replicating 
some of the original Warburg studies), and (c) glucose-containing media
supplemented with L-lactate (10 and 20 mM). We found that both endogenous,
glucose-derived lactate and exogenous, lactate supplementation significantly
affected the transcription of key oncogenes (MYC, RAS, and PI3KCA), transcription
factors (HIF1A and E2F1), tumor suppressors (BRCA1, BRCA2) as well as cell cycle 
and proliferation genes involved in breast cancer (AKT1, ATM, CCND1, CDK4,
CDKN1A, CDK2B) (0.001 < p < 0.05 for all genes). Our findings support the
hypothesis that lactate acts as an oncometabolite in MCF7 cells. Further research
is necessary on other cell lines and biopsy cultures to show generality of the
findings and reveal the mechanisms by which dysregulated lactate metabolism could
act as an oncometabolite in carcinogenesis.

Copyright © 2020 San-Millán, Julian, Matarazzo, Martinez and Brooks.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2019.01536 
PMCID: PMC6971189
PMID: 32010625 

