
1. Contemp Oncol (Pozn). 2019;23(4):220-225. doi: 10.5114/wo.2019.91544. Epub 2019
Dec 30.

A computational approach to the study of interactions between proteins and
miR10-b, miR-335, and miR-21 involved in breast cancer.

Hammou RA(1), Kasmi Y(1), Ennaji MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Team of Virology, Oncology, and Medical Biotechnologies, Laboratory of
Virology, Microbiology, Quality, and Biotechnologies/ETB, Faculty of Sciences and
Techniques, University Hassan II of Casablanca, Mohammedia, Morocco.

MiR-10b, miR-335, and miR-21 are classes of microRNAs (miRNAs) that are
overexpressed in breast cancer. Thus, in our study we aimed to test the
hypothesis that miRNAs may have direct interactions with proteins and the
possibility to inhibit/activate the functional site of proteins and enzymes. For 
this purpose, we choose three miRNAs involved in breast cancer to study
interactions between some proteins and genes, including BRCA1 and PTEN, by
processing the docking and matching tools using the Hex8 and HADDOCK server.
Mathematically, the hidden Markov models were created by using MATLAB script
according to the algorithm in order to study and validate the interactions and
bonds between proteins and miRNAs. The main results demonstrate the ability of
miR-10b, miR-335, and miR-21 to create direct interactions with 3D protein
structures. Furthermore, these results may lead to another pathway of research,
i.e. the direct interaction between proteins and their sub-units, to highlight
the data obtained previously and demonstrate that proteins may directly interact 
with ncRNA instead of mRNA. Moreover, our study suggests developing research on
different pathways of association proteins-miRNAs as a part of epigenetic
extra-nuclear regulation. Taken together, our study provides the first evidence
of direct interactions between miRNAs and proteins.

Copyright Â© 2019 Termedia.

DOI: 10.5114/wo.2019.91544 
PMCID: PMC6978763
PMID: 31992954 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

