
1. Genome Res. 2019 Sep;29(9):1429-1441. doi: 10.1101/gr.244780.118. Epub 2019 Jul
30.

Estrogen-independent molecular actions of mutant estrogen receptor 1 in
endometrial cancer.

Blanchard Z(1)(2), Vahrenkamp JM(1)(2), Berrett KC(1)(2), Arnesen S(1)(2), Gertz 
J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncological Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah
84112, USA.
(2)Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112,
USA.

Estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) mutations have been identified in hormone
therapy-resistant breast cancer and primary endometrial cancer. Analyses in
breast cancer suggest that mutant ESR1 exhibits estrogen-independent activity. In
endometrial cancer, ESR1 mutations are associated with worse outcomes and less
obesity, however, experimental investigation of these mutations has not been
performed. Using a unique CRISPR/Cas9 strategy, we introduced the D538G mutation,
a common endometrial cancer mutation that alters the ligand binding domain of
ESR1, while epitope tagging the endogenous locus. We discovered
estrogen-independent mutant ESR1 genomic binding that is significantly altered
from wild-type ESR1. The D538G mutation impacted expression, including a large
set of nonestrogen-regulated genes, and chromatin accessibility, with most
affected loci bound by mutant ESR1. Mutant ESR1 is distinct from constitutive
ESR1 activity because mutant-specific changes are not recapitulated with
prolonged estrogen exposure. Overall, the D538G mutant ESR1 confers
estrogen-independent activity while causing additional regulatory changes in
endometrial cancer cells that are distinct from breast cancer cells.

Â© 2019 Blanchard et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.244780.118 
PMCID: PMC6724674 [Available on 2020-03-01]
PMID: 31362937 

