
1. J Transl Med. 2020 Feb 12;18(1):74. doi: 10.1186/s12967-020-02260-9.

Identification of key genes controlling breast cancer stem cell characteristics
via stemness indices analysis.

Pei J(1), Wang Y(1), Li Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gansu Provincial Maternity and Child-care Hospital, Lanzhou, 730000, China.
(2)Gansu Province Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and Regenerative Medicine, the
First Hospital of Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. liyan6533@163.com.

BACKGROUND: With the gradual unveiling of tumour heterogeneity, cancer stem cells
(CSCs) are now being considered the initial component of tumour initiation.
However, the mechanisms of the growth and maintenance of breast cancer (BRCA)
stem cells are still unknown.
METHODS: To explore the crucial genes modulating BRCA stemness characteristics,
we combined the gene expression value and mRNA expression-based stemness index
(mRNAsi) of samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and the mRNAsi was
corrected using the tumour purity (corrected mRNAsi). mRNAsi and corrected mRNAsi
were analysed and showed a close relationship with BRCA clinical characteristics,
including tumour depth, pathological staging and survival status. Next, weighted 
gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to distinguish crucial
gene modules and key genes. A series of functional analyses and expression
validation of key genes were conducted using multiple databases, including
Oncomine, Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and Gene Expression Profiling Integrative
Analysis (GEPIA).
RESULTS: This study found that mRNAsi and corrected mRNAsi scores were higher in 
BRCA tissues than that in normal tissues, and both of them increased with tumour 
stage. Higher corrected mRNAsi scores showed worse overall survival outcomes. We 
screened 3 modules and 32 key genes, and those key genes were found to be
strongly correlated with each other. Functional analysis revealed that the key
genes were related to cell fate decision events such as the cell cycle, cellular 
senescence, chromosome segregation and mitotic nuclear division. Among 32 key
genes, we identified 12 genes that strongly correlated with BRCA survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Thirty-two genes were found to be closely related to BRCA stem cell 
characteristics; among them, 12 genes showed prognosis-oriented effects in BRCA
patients. The most significant signalling pathway related to stemness in BRCA was
the cell cycle pathway, which may support new ideas for screening therapeutic
targets to inhibit BRCA stem characteristics. These findings may highlight some
therapeutic targets for inhibiting BRCA stem cells.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-020-02260-9 
PMCID: PMC7014665
PMID: 32050983 

