
1. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2019 Sep;19(9):795-802. doi: 10.1080/14737159.2019.1657011.
Epub 2019 Aug 28.

Detection of BRCA1/2 large genomic rearrangements in breast and ovarian cancer
patients: an overview of the current methods.

Concolino P(1), Capoluongo E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento Scienze di Laboratorio e Infettivologiche, Fondazione Policlinico
Universitario A. Gemelli - IRCCS , Roma , Italia.
(2)Dipartimento di Medicina Molecolare e Biotecnologie Mediche, Universit√†
Federico II , Napoli , Italia.

Introduction: Currently, genetic testing of BRCA1/2 genes includes screening for 
single-nucleotide variants, small insertions/deletions, and copy number
variations (CNVs). In fact, many studies document the involvement of BRCA1/2 gene
rearrangements in genetic predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer. Large
genomic rearrangements (LGRs) of BRCA1 may account for up to one-third of all
disease-causing alterations in various populations, while LGRs in BRCA2 are less 
frequently observed. Areas covered: We aimed to present an overview of current
technologies employed in molecular diagnosis of BRCA1/2 LGRs. The most relevant
literature papers, showing the application of new strategies, were considered.
Expert opinion: Currently, the progress of next-generation sequencing (NGS)
technologies allows for the validation of new pipelines able to provide rapid and
effective results, ensuring the sensitivity and specificity requested for the
detection of BRCA1/2 LGRs. Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification
remains the gold standard to confirm NGS CNVs results and to perform fast
screening in families where a pathogenic rearrangement has been detected in a
proband.

DOI: 10.1080/14737159.2019.1657011 
PMID: 31429350 

