
1. Mol Biol Res Commun. 2019 Dec;8(4):141-150. doi: 10.22099/mbrc.2019.34198.1420.

In silico analysis for determining the deleterious nonsynonymous single
nucleotide polymorphisms of BRCA genes.

Yadegari F(1), Majidzadeh K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Department, Breast Cancer Research Center, Motamed Cancer Institute, 
ACECR, Tehran, Iran.

Recent advances in DNA sequencing techniques have led to an increase in the
identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in BRCA1 and BRCA2
genes, but no further information regarding the deleterious probability of many
of them is available (Variants of Unknown Significance/VUS). As a result, in the 
current study, different sequence- and structure-based computational tools
including SIFT, PolyPhen2, PANTHER, SNPs&GO, FATHMM, SNAP, PhD-SNP, Align-GVGD,
and I-Mutant were utilized for determining how resulted BRCA protein is affected 
by corresponding missense mutations. FoldX was used to estimate mutational
effects on the structural stability of BRCA proteins. Variants were considered
extremely deleterious only when all tools predicted them to be deleterious. A
total of 10 VUSs in BRCA1 (Cys39Ser, Cys64Gly, Phe861Cys, Arg1699Pro, Trp1718Cys,
Phe1761Ser, Gly1788Asp, Val1804Gly, Trp1837Gly, and Trp1837Cys) and 12 in BRCA2
(Leu2510Pro, Asp2611Gly, Tyr2660Asp, Leu2686Pro, Leu2688Pro, Tyr2726Cys,
Leu2792Pro, Gly2812Glu, Gly2813Glu, Arg2842Cys, Asp3073Gly, and Gly3076Val) were 
considered as extremely deleterious. Results suggested that deleterious variants 
were mostly enriched in the N- and C-terminal domain of the BRCA1 and BRCA2
C-terminus. Utilizing evolutionary conservation analysis, we demonstrated that
the majority of deleterious SNPs ensue in highly conserved regions of BRCA genes.
Furthermore, utilizing FoldX, we demonstrated that alterations in the function of
proteins are not always together with stability alterations.

DOI: 10.22099/mbrc.2019.34198.1420 
PMCID: PMC6995337
PMID: 32042831 

Conflict of interest statement: Authors have no competing interests

