
1. PLoS One. 2013 May 2;8(5):e62766. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062766. Print 2013.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy induces expression levels of breast cancer resistance
protein that predict disease-free survival in breast cancer.

Kim B(1), Fatayer H, Hanby AM, Horgan K, Perry SL, Valleley EM, Verghese ET,
Williams BJ, Thorne JL, Hughes TA.

Author information: 
(1)Leeds Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Leeds, Leeds, United
Kingdom.

Three main xenobiotic efflux pumps have been implicated in modulating breast
cancer chemotherapy responses. These are P-glycoprotein (Pgp), Multidrug
Resistance-associated Protein 1 (MRP1), and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein
(BCRP). We investigated expression of these proteins in breast cancers before and
after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) to determine whether their levels define
response to NAC or subsequent survival. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues 
were collected representing matched pairs of core biopsy (pre-NAC) and surgical
specimen (post-NAC) from 45 patients with invasive ductal carcinomas. NAC regimes
were anthracyclines +/- taxanes. Immunohistochemistry was performed for Pgp, MRP1
and BCRP and expression was quantified objectively using computer-aided scoring. 
Pgp and MRP1 were significantly up-regulated after exposure to NAC (Wilcoxon
signed-rank p = 0.0024 and p<0.0001), while BCRP showed more variation in
response to NAC, with frequent up- (59% of cases) and down-regulation (41%)
contributing to a lack of significant difference overall. Pre-NAC expression of
all markers, and post-NAC expression of Pgp and MRP1 did not correlate with NAC
response or with disease-free survival (DFS). Post-NAC expression of BCRP did not
correlate with NAC response, but correlated significantly with DFS (Log rank
p = 0.007), with longer DFS in patients with low post-NAC BCRP expression. In
multivariate Cox regression analyses, post-NAC BCRP expression levels proved to
predict DFS independently of standard prognostic factors, with high expression
associated with a hazard ratio of 4.04 (95% confidence interval 1.3-12.2;
p = 0.013). We conclude that NAC-induced expression levels of BCRP predict
survival after NAC for breast cancer, while Pgp and MRP1 expression have little
predictive value.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062766 
PMCID: PMC3642197
PMID: 23658771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

