
1. PeerJ. 2020 Jan 21;8:e8403. doi: 10.7717/peerj.8403. eCollection 2020.

Differentially expressed genes and key molecules of BRCA1/2-mutant breast cancer:
evidence from bioinformatics analyses.

Li Y(1), Zhou X(1), Liu J(1), Yin Y(1)(2), Yuan X(1), Yang R(1), Wang Q(1), Ji
J(1), He Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratories, Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratories, XIAN XD Group Hospital, Xi'an, China.

Background: BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes are currently proven to be closely related to
high lifetime risks of breast cancer. To date, the closely related genes to
BRCA1/2 mutations in breast cancer remains to be fully elucidated. This study
aims to identify the gene expression profiles and interaction networks influenced
by BRCA1/2 mutations, so as to reflect underlying disease mechanisms and provide 
new biomarkers for breast cancer diagnosis or prognosis.
Methods: Gene expression profiles from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database
were downloaded and combined with cBioPortal website to identify exact breast
cancer patients with BRCA1/2 mutations. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was
used to analyze some enriched pathways and biological processes associated BRCA
mutations. For BRCA1/2-mutant breast cancer, wild-type breast cancer and
corresponding normal tissues, three independent differentially expressed genes
(DEGs) analysis were performed to validate potential hub genes with each other.
Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, survival analysis and diagnostic
value assessment helped identify key genes associated with BRCA1/2 mutations.
Results: The regulation process of cell cycle was significantly enriched in
mutant group compared with wild-type group. A total of 294 genes were identified 
after analysis of DEGs between mutant patients and wild-type patients.
Interestingly, by the other two comparisons, we identified 43 overlapping genes
that not only significantly expressed in wild-type breast cancer patients
relative to normal tissues, but more significantly expressed in BRCA1/2-mutant
breast patients. Based on the STRING database and cytoscape software, we
constructed a PPI network using 294 DEGs. Through topological analysis scores of 
the PPI network and 43 overlapping genes, we sought to select some genes, thereby
using survival analysis and diagnostic value assessment to identify key genes
pertaining to BRCA1/2-mutant breast cancer. CCNE1, NPBWR1, A2ML1, EXO1 and TTK
displayed good prognostic/diagnostic value for breast cancer and BRCA1/2-mutant
breast cancer.
Conclusion: Our research provides comprehensive and new insights for the
identification of biomarkers connected with BRCA mutations, availing diagnosis
and treatment of breast cancer and BRCA1/2-mutant breast cancer patients.

Â©2020 Li et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.8403 
PMCID: PMC6979404
PMID: 31998560 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.

