
1. Mol Biol Rep. 2020 Jan 9. doi: 10.1007/s11033-020-05247-3. [Epub ahead of print]

Analysis of the DOK1 gene in breast cancer.

Tuna E(1), Ersoy YE(2), Bulut P(1), Ozdemir F(1), Buyru N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biology, Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, Istanbul
University-Cerrahpasa, Kocamustafapasa, 34098, Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Medical Faculty, Bezmialem University,
Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Medical Biology, Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, Istanbul
University-Cerrahpasa, Kocamustafapasa, 34098, Istanbul, Turkey.
nbuyru@yahoo.com.

Breast cancer, which is the most common type of cancer among women, is a
heterogenous disease. It results from progressive accumulation of genetic and
epigenetic alterations in different genes. The Dok1 protein has been identified
as the major substrate of protein tyrosine kinases in hematopoietic cells. It is 
considered as a tumor suppressor due to the reports which describe its inhibitory
effect on major oncogenic signaling pathways such as Mek/Erk/PI3k/Akt and
Wnt/β-catenin. In this study, we investigated the mutation frequency of the DOK1 
gene in 118 breast tumors using Sanger sequencing and DOK1 mRNA expression level 
in 63 breast cancer samples using qRT-PCR methods. Although the mutation
frequency was low DOK1 mRNA expression levels were significantly reduced (63.5%) 
in the tumors compared to adjacent non-cancerous tissue. We also correlated
expression changes with clinicopathological characteristics. Low mRNA levels
correlated with age (p = 0.01) and c-erbB-2 (p = 0.05). In most of the previous
reports, down-regulation of DOK1 mRNA expression has been associated with
promoter methylation. We identified four different coding sequence alterations in
5.1% (6/118) of the tumor samples. However, all of these alterations were located
in the functional domains of the protein. Therefore, these mutations may affect
the function and/or cellular localization of the protein and contribute to cancer
progression by this way. In conclusion our data indicate that DOK1 acts as a
tumor suppressor in breast cancer and association of Dok1 with the c-erbB-2
mediated mechanism of action in breast cancer needs to be investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-020-05247-3 
PMID: 31919752 

