
1. J Genet Couns. 2020 Feb 3. doi: 10.1002/jgc4.1220. [Epub ahead of print]

Factors that impact risk management decisions among women with pathogenic
variants in moderate penetrance genes associated with hereditary breast cancer.

Napoli M(1)(2), Lewis J(3), Hopper J(1), Widmeyer K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Genetics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, OH.
(2)College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH.
(3)Division of Surgical Oncology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH.

There is limited information known about how women with pathogenic variants (PV) 
in moderate penetrance genes make decisions to manage their increased risk of
breast cancer. This study analyzed factors that may impact decision-making
surrounding management for increased breast cancer risk. Women with a PV in a
moderate penetrance gene associated with increased risk for breast cancer were
identified from an institutional database. Semi-structured, qualitative
interviews were conducted to analyze decision-making factors. Themes were
developed using deductive codes based on previous literature and inductive codes 
based on interviewee responses. The 16 participants (mean age = 55.9 years)
included 12 women with a breast cancer diagnosis. Six women (37.5%) chose
bilateral mastectomy (BM), and 10 women (62.5%) chose surveillance as management.
Of the 12 women with a personal history of breast cancer, four chose to have BM
(33.3%). Two women without a personal history of breast cancer chose to have BM
(50.0%). Transcriptions revealed seven comprehensive themes, as well as themes
unique to affected and unaffected women (Cohen's kappa = 0.80). Physician opinion
was the only factor present in all interviews reported to influence risk
management decision-making. Several themes were consistent with prior BRCA1/BRCA2
research (family history, risk perception, sibling influence, and physician
opinions). Autonomy and insurance/finances were also important factors to
participants. There were certain differences in decision-making factors between
affected and unaffected women, such as partner influence. Results indicate an
opportunity for providers to engage their patients in a decision-making process.

© 2020 National Society of Genetic Counselors.

DOI: 10.1002/jgc4.1220 
PMID: 32012395 

